SURMA: A very common thing
we see on websites is FUT--
a Flash of Unstyled Text.
When using web fonts, the
text will be invisible
until either the
web font's loaded
or three seconds have
passed, at which point
the fallback font is used.
To give developers
more choice over how
to deal with the
loading font, CSS now
has the font display property.
The property defines three
time spans-- the block period,
the swap period, and
the failer period.
During the block
period, the text
will be made invisible if the
web font hasn't loaded yet,
rendering it as blocked
on the web font.
During the swap period,
the fallback font
will be used to render text, but
if the web font is successfully
loaded during the
swap period, the font
can be swapped from fallback
to the actual web font.
If the failure period is
reached, loading the web font
is considered to have failed and
the fallback font will be used.
Font display offers
modes that allocate
different amounts of time
to the different periods.
I recommend font
display optional.
This means either web font
is available within 100
milliseconds, which it can
achieve with a service worker,
or it is not used at all.
Font display is very new and
not consistently supported,
but it is a progressive
enhancement.
The directive is ignored
unless the browser
understands it and will make
your user experience much,
much better.
Got it?
Great.
See you next time.
Surprise!
I'm back.
You just saw me talk
about font display.
And now, I want to
ask you to subscribe,
because you probably want
to see more of these videos.
And if you're interested
in our live streams,
the most recent
one is over there.